chore: Prepare docs before 0.29 (#2837)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-rust: docs/migration_0.29.md

# Migration Guide from 0.28 to 0.29

> OpenTelemetry Rust 0.29 introduces few breaking changes. This guide aims to

Reviewer: We have made a considerable number of breaking changes, right? We should use "a few" not "few".

```suggestion
OpenTelemetry Rust 0.29 introduces a few breaking changes. This guide aims to
```

Author: a few is correct yes! If there was no breaking change at all, then we didn't need migration guide too 🤣

facilitate a smooth migration for common use cases involving the
`opentelemetry`, `opentelemetry_sdk`, `opentelemetry-otlp`, and
`opentelemetry-appender-tracing` crates. For a comprehensive list of changes,
please refer to the detailed changelog for each crate. This document covers only
the most common scenarios. Note that changes that only affect custom
exporter/processor authors are not mentioned in this doc.

> OpenTelemetry Metrics API, Log-Bridge API were declared stable in 0.28, and has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenTelemetry Metrics API and Log-Bridge API were declared stable in 0.28, and has
```

no breaking changes.

## Baggage Changes

The Baggage API has been redesigned to align with the OpenTelemetry
specification. While the core API for interacting with Baggage remains the same,
the accepted data types have changed. Baggage Keys now only allow strings (ASCII

> visual characters), and Baggage values are restricted to strings.

Reviewer: What is visual referring to here? Is it https://www.ascii-code.com/characters/printable-characters?
```suggestion
printable characters), and Baggage values are restricted to strings.
```

## Configuration via Environment Variables

The 0.29 release aligns OpenTelemetry Rust with the rest of the OpenTelemetry
ecosystem by treating any code-based configuration as final (i.e., it cannot be
overridden by environment variables). This policy was partially true before but
is now applied consistently. If you prefer to configure your application via
environment variables, avoid configuring it programmatically.

## Discontinuing Dedicated Prometheus Exporter

The `opentelemetry-prometheus` crate will be discontinued with the 0.29 release.
Active development on this crate ceased a few months ago. Given that Prometheus
now natively supports OTLP, and considering that the OpenTelemetry Rust project
is still working towards a 1.0 release, we need to focus on essential components
to maintain scope and ensure timely delivery.

Prometheus interoperability remains a key goal for OpenTelemetry. However, the
current `opentelemetry-prometheus` crate requires a major rewrite to eliminate
dependencies on unmaintained crates. We may reintroduce a dedicated Prometheus
exporter in the future once these issues are resolved.

> ### Migration guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Migration Guide
```

For those using Prometheus as a backend, you can integrate with Prometheus using
the following methods:

1. Use the OTLP Exporter to push metrics directly to Prometheus.
2. If you require a pull (scrape) model, push metrics to an OpenTelemetry
   Collector using the OTLP Exporter, and configure Prometheus to scrape the
   OpenTelemetry Collector.

These alternatives ensure continued Prometheus integration while allowing us to
focus on achieving a stable 1.0 release for OpenTelemetry Rust.

## Next Release

In the [next
release](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-rust/milestone/21), we
expect to stabilize the Metrics SDK and resolve the long-standing question of

> `tokio-tracing` vs. `opentelemetry tracing`, which is an pre-req before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tokio-tracing` vs. `opentelemetry tracing`, which is a prerequisite for
```

> stabilizing Distributed Tracing. Additionally `Context` is also expected to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stabilizing Distributed Tracing. Additionally, `Context` is also expected to be
```
